

# Amazon Lex - Security Runbook <!-- omit in toc -->
## NIST Cybersecurity Framework Alignment <!-- omit in toc -->

**Generated By:**  
Ken Jeanis
 

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->
- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Preventative Controls](#preventative-controls)
  - [1. Preventative Item 1](#1-preventative-item-1)
  - [2. Preventative Item 2](#2-preventative-item-2)
  - [3. Preventative Item 3](#3-preventative-item-3)
- [Detective](#detective)
  - [1. Detective Item 1](#1-detective-item-1)
  - [2. Detective Item 2](#2-detective-item-2)
  - [3. Detective Item 3](#3-detective-item-3)
- [Respond/Recover](#respondrecover)
  - [1. Respond/Recover Item 1](#1-respondrecover-item-1)
  - [2. Respond/Recover Item 2](#2-respondrecover-item-2)
  - [3. Respond/Recover Item 3](#3-respondrecover-item-3)
- [Endnotes](#endnotes)

## Overview

## Preventative Controls
### 1. Deny public access to Lex
Capital Group:
|Control Statement|Description|
|------|----------------------|
|6|Any AWS service used by CG should not be directly available to the Internet and the default route is always the CG gateway.|

**Why?** Lex lacks the ability to be attached to CG VPC's and is routable and accessible publically is misconfigured. 

**How?** By using the Organization Principal condition on all Lex resources, non-CG access can be prevented. Further least-privileged adjustments should be implemented per (when we do a complete runbook do it here), but will provide at least a baseline boundary to limit exposure to Capital Group.

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
       {
           "Effect": "Deny",
           "Action": [
                "lex:*"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "*"
            ],
            "Condition": {
                "StringNotEquals": {
                    "aws:PrincipalOrgID": "o-1eax4cor5e"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
 }

### 2. Ensure that CG data is not used by AWS
Capital Group:
|Control Statement|Description|
|------|----------------------|
|1|All Data-at-rest must be encrypted and use a CG BYOK encryption key.|

**Why?** Lex allows Amazon to store voice and text inputs to be used for (Endnote 1), which isn't aligned to CG objectives

**How?**
Use the [AI Services Opt Out Policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/organizations/latest/userguide/orgs_manage_policies_ai-opt-out.html) at the Organization level to prevent AWS from using CG data. 

## Endnotes
### Endnote 1 https://aws.amazon.com/lex/faqs/ (Data & Security)

## Capital Group Control Statements
1. All Data-at-rest must be encrypted and use a CG BYOK encryption key.
2. All Data-in-transit must be encrypted using certificates using CG Certificate Authority.
3. Keys storied in a Key Management System (KMS) should be created by Capital Group's hardware security module (HSM) and are a minimum of AES-256.
4. AWS services should have logging enabled and those logs delivered to CloudTrail or Cloud Watch.
5. Local AWS IAM accounts are restricted to services and no user accounts are to be provisioned including IaaS resources.
6. Any AWS service used by CG should not be directly available to the Internet and the default route is always the CG gateway.
7. Use of AWS IAM accounts are restricted to CG networks.
8. Local IAM secrets are rotated every 90 days, including accounts IaaS resources.
9. Encryption keys are rotated annually.
10. Root accounts must have 2FA/MFA enabled.

## Capital Group Glossory 
**Data** - Digital pieces of information stored or transmitted for use with an information system from which understandable information is derived. Items that could be considered to be data are: Source code, meta-data, build artifacts, information input and output.  
 
**Information System** - An organized assembly of resources and procedures for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information. All systems, platforms, compute instances including and not limited to physical and virtual client endpoints, physical and virtual servers, software containers, databases, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, network devices, applications (internal and external), Serverless computing instances (i.e. AWS Lambda), vendor provided appliances, and third-party platforms, connected to the Capital Group network or used by Capital Group users or customers.

**Log** - a record of the events occurring within information systems and networks. Logs are composed of log entries; each entry contains information related to a specific event that has occurred within a system or network.

**Information** - communication or representation of knowledge such as facts, data, or opinions in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narrative, or audiovisual. 

**Cloud computing** - A model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

**Vulnerability**  - Weakness in an information system, system security procedures, internal controls, or implementation that could be exploited or triggered by a threat source. Note: The term weakness is synonymous for deficiency. Weakness may result in security and/or privacy risks.
